# Weibo-Social-Media-Analytics
The project was for the class MSBA Social Media Analytics(2019-2020) provided by the Master of Science in Business Analytics from the University of Hong Kong and was done by( in alphabetical order) Lin Liwei, Lin Hongying, Wang Yanyuan, Wang Yang, Zhang Xinyi, Zhou Zezhong, Zhong Qitong.  # 1 Introduction ## 1.1 Project Idea Product Promotion in social media platforms is very popular in recent years. According to TopKlout (2019), in 2020, the share of the social media market in the e-market will increase by 11.5%, and the market value of blogger-related e-market will reach 3,000,000,000 RMB. The beauty industry, in particular, is embracing this influencer marketing strategy. More and more cosmetic brands are partnering with beauty influencers to share and promote their products on social media platforms. Based on general knowledge, the number of one blogger’s active followers are positively correlated with his/her promotion effect. However, there might be some other factors, such as product information and post content, that would influence bloggers’ promotion effect. Thus, it might be not accurate enough when brands choose bloggers only based on their social media follower numbers. The purpose of this project is to explore a scientific model to select the best-performance beauty influencers for beauty brands to cooperate with regarding their product information.  ## 1.2 Data and Methodology Our analysis involves the following 3 aspects of data:  1. Products/Brands’ features: brand, product name, the product’s popularity, price in T-mall, score in T-mall, Hot-topic in Weibo, etc.  2. Bloggers’ features: bloggers’ user-id, name, gender, region, tag, follows, number of fans, number of posts in total, etc. 3. Posts’ features: post id, contents, posts’ picture/video, posted time, number of likes, comments, shares, tags in a post, whether it mentions others, etc. The data mentioned above will be scraped on social media websites such as Weibo.com, T-mall.com and Cosme-De.com. Then we used the features we extracted from products /brands, bloggers and posts as the independent variables to estimate the promotion effectiveness of each post, where the effectiveness is measured by the weighted average of the number of likes, comments, and shares.  ## 1.3 Key Findings and Results  We use linear model, random forest and XGBoost to do classification. The result of XGBoost is the best and the accuracy is 72.32%. We also get the feature importance for each variable, which provides insights for companies to make the most efficient plan in product promotion. As we can see from the result, blogger fan is the most important feature. However, there are other features that can be considered, such as tags on a post, the length of the post, or whether to include videos or pictures in the post, etc.  By applying our model, once we get the brand information and related product information, we can output the three-level recommended blogger list.   For a more detailed report, you can access by sending e-mail to zionzhou@hku.hk
